Um. But! Super excited about that.
Um, I want to mention something today
and I'm probably gonna get in trouble
for this, but I'm going to do it.
I, I, okay.
So I had moments in worship where God
just reminds me of moments in my life.
Where I had no clue what
the heck he was going to do.
And then I go, bam. I'm
experiencing that moment.
So I think I've shared this
with you guys before, right?
Faith is seeing what God sees,
even though we can't see it.
So meaning there's moments in your life
where you have faith in God for something,
but in that moment, you don't physically
see it, but you see God and then down the
road, you see it and you go, there it is.
And you go back to them.
Two years ago for me.
So here's just a cool story.
Right?
So I've shared with you guys, as
we were planning this planning to
come and plant a church here in
Cincinnati, we begin fundraising, right?
What does it look like to fundraise?
It's where you ask people to help support
you to come and plant a church here.
And, uh, there's this awesome family
back in our church that, um, I gave
three years of support upfront and said,
we believe in you as a church plant.
Um, and that family is here today.
Um, Adrian and her husband is not here,
but he is out hunting with her two boys.
Um, they have not only financially
supported us at the beginning of this.
When we, that you didn't
see this two years ago.
Now, now here's the thing you saw.
God, you trust again.
And, um, you wouldn't want this
pray, so I know God's not going
to take that reward away from you
because this isn't what it's for.
Right.
But this is for us to realize
guys is like all of us get to be a
part of sometimes something today
where you're believing in faith.
Maybe it's giving maybe it's your
faith and stepping out and trusting
God in the area of, of salvation.
Maybe it's an area of ministry.
I don't know what it is, but maybe
today you step out on faith and in two
years later, you look and you see this.
And I, I see her worshiping with us
today and I wish her husband was here
today to see this, but because of their
faith, we are experiencing what God saw
two years ago and her and many others,
and many of you that are been investing
over these last couple of years.
And that's just a beautiful picture,
guys, such a beautiful picture that
we should stop when God reveals
that to us to say, thank you, Lord.
Thank you for letting me physically
see what I saw in my heart to your.
Because I am praying today and I'm
believing today and a future that I can't
see yet, but I trust the guy who does,
and every day I'll invest financially.
I'll invest my time.
I'll invest my prayer and my commitment
and my, and the word to the Lord because
I desperately desire to see what he sees.
It's so cool when we get an opportunity
to see that, but it's so important
to stop and thank God when we do.
Hey man.
So I haven't started preaching
yet, but that's good.
So we're going to be in
Jonah chapter four today.
We've been walking through the book of
Jonah for the last several weeks months.
Couple of months.
I don't know.
It's not as long as we were in Ephesians,
so we've been in it for a little while.
Um, but we've been walking through
this story and there's been some really
cool things that we've saw that I
believe I never saw the first time I
taught through this, this book before.
Um, and before we jump in, I want to
start with, uh, with really a question
of where we're heading a story.
And then I'll kind of summarize
where we've been and we'll jump into.
But has anyone in here ever,
um, been wronged by somebody?
Right?
Has anybody in here ever
been wrong by somebody?
Right?
Probably the majority of us had been
hurt by words, actions, statements.
You never, you name it, right?
You've been hurt by them here.
Here's another question.
Was it hard for you to forget?
And maybe, um, I'm going to
make even a tougher statement.
Are you still trying to figure
out how to forgive them?
Are you still struggling maybe with
some unforgiveness in your life
as I get it, and today we're going
to learn a little bit about how
Jonah was blinded by bitterness.
He had come to a point in his life
where he couldn't get over his
view of the people of Nineveh.
To a point where he could forgive them
so that he could desire the Godwin.
And so today we're going to
talk a little about that, but
I want to share a story for me.
So you guys know, Hey, it's not just you.
It's pastor Ben.
He's struggled with bitterness
and unforgiveness in his life.
So I'm going to give a brief story.
And I know my mom and dad are
actually watching the service.
And so they're going
to remember this story.
Um, and everybody has
their different views.
Of what the story was, and I'm
not going to summarize, I'm just
gonna try to summarize it here.
But when I was younger, our family
was a part of a house church.
Basically we, we had several families
that would gather together in a home and
there come to this point where there was
disagreements within what we were doing.
And again, not trying to get in the
details of it, even as a kid at age 13, I
didn't really know all the disagreements,
but there was just some things that were
wrong, um, that were, were not right.
And there was disagreements and it led
to some pretty hard issues being dealt.
Well, just so happened that my dad
worked with the guy who we would call
our leader of this home church group.
My dad worked with him on one day.
He was there alone at work with
that man, as well as I was there.
Cause it was my grandpa's shop that
we, my, my dad and him worked at.
And, uh, that man who was our leader,
begin to beat my dad up really bad,
right in front of me, um, to a point
where I had to scream as loud as I could
to get the man to stop beating my dad.
This is age 13.
Horrible moment.
My life in front of them, more of
the story you can ask me later.
So obviously this really changed our
family dynamics because what happened was
one that church group, we were no longer
a part of soon after, because of some
other things, my dad lost his job and
the guy that works there kept his job.
Um, and some, just some
crazy things happen.
Right?
So for me, for the next 10 years,
10 years, from 13 to 23, I had a.
Bitterness and unforgiveness towards that
man, there were nights where I would dream
and I would wake up wanting to kill him.
Yes.
Your pastor, somebody who at
that point didn't know Jesus
desired for this man to pay right.
Bitterness unforgiveness, right.
For 10 years.
And one day, which I say one day,
but 10 years and really one long year
from age 22 to 23, I was involved
in a church when we finally went to
church because my daughter was born.
My oldest daughter was born
and we needed to be in church.
And so I spent a year dealing
with this unforgiveness and
one day on a Sunday evening.
And, uh, almost now 13 years, this
January, I gave my life to Christ.
And for me, and that moment was a
moment that I could see this guy,
the one that had beat my dad up,
the one that had changed our life.
I could see this man and not hate
him and not wish for him to die.
See, recently I had an opportunity
again, it was my best friend's dad,
by the way that this had happened to,
and I would even tell you this, I was.
Like a couple months
old when I met this guy.
So he was like a second father to
me that had done this to my dad.
So my best friend's dad.
Um, and I heard that he was sick
recently and then the hospital
heart's not working really well.
And, uh, we're going to talk
about this word compassion.
So we're compassion is really,
there's such a desire to want
to do something about it.
And so the moment I heard that had
compassion and I reached out to my friend
and said, Hey, how's your dad doing?
How can I pray for him?
And I desperately prayed for the man
who in that time I had hated so much.
Guys, we can overcome bitterness, but
bitterness can blind us, can blind us.
And we're going to see how
Jonah was blinded by bitterness.
And at the end of this story, I
don't think he ever overcame it.
So my encouragement for you, if you don't
have a struggle with unforgiveness or
maybe bitterness, and you're sitting here
saying, what does this message mean to me?
We're going to learn a lot about God
today, which is going to be good to take
home, but it's also things like this.
We need to put in our.
We need to save for the moments
when we want to be better.
We want to be unforgiving where we can
pull it back out and say, Lord, help me.
Right.
We're going to learn a lot about that.
So as we kind of jump into this text,
I want to kind of mention a few things
as just to kind of catch you up, right?
So the book of Jonah, Jonah chapter
one, Jonah gets a word from the Lord
and he gets up and he runs, right.
He runs from the Lord and he gets
on a boat right in this boat.
There's a storm and all, all
these major things are happening
and finally tells the sailor.
Throw me off the boat and he
gets thrown off the boat and
you guys know what happens.
He gets eaten by a big old fish
and hangs out there for three days.
And finally, at the end of the, into
three days, he basically says, you
know, his last words, and I love
this as my life was fading away.
I remembered the Lord and
my prayer came to you.
So in the last moment he says,
okay, I'm going to pray and
ask for you to forgive me.
And the Lord spits him
out onto the dry land.
And it's not the word spit it's
really vomit, which is disgusting.
Right.
And he says, okay, Jonah,
you get a second chance.
Right?
So we see Jonah in chapter three.
Getting a second chance to go
to the people of Nineveh and
preach a message from the word.
And he does.
He preaches whatever message the Lord
gave, gave him, even if it was shorts and
the people repented, we saw all of the
people of Nineveh get a second chance.
They repented and turned back to God.
And that's really where we, and here
I'm going to read verse 10 of chapter
three, and then I'm going to read.
Uh, the first four verses in
chapter four, just so you know why
Jonah's saying what he is saying.
So it says this in verse 10, and I
don't think we have it up here, but
this in verse 10 of chapter three,
it says God saw their actions.
Speaking of the Ninevites that they
had turned from their evil ways.
And so God relented from the disaster
and he threatened that he had threatened
them with, and he did not do it.
Guys.
I'm going to stop right
there for just a second.
When one sinner repents and turns
from God, we should celebrate.
I don't care if it's just coming to
faith in Christ, or if you've been a
believer for 27 years and you repent of
your sin, absolute, we should celebrate.
Let's see what Jonah does says.
Jonah was greatly displeased
and became furious.
Wow.
That's crazy.
It says he prayed to the Lord, please.
God, isn't this what I thought
while I was still in my own country.
And that's why I fled towards
tortious in the first place.
I knew that you were a gracious God and
a compassionate God and slow to anger
and abounding and faithful love, and
one who relents from sending disaster.
And now Lord, take my life from me for
his better, for me to die than to live.
And then the Lord asked
this question to him.
Is it right for you to be angry?
And I would read the next verse if Jonah
responded, but Jonah didn't respond.
And so we'll deal with the rest of
Jonah and a couple of weeks, but
we're going to jump into this text and
see why was Jonah's heart so better?
Why was he so bitter?
So unforgiving.
So he was blinded by bitterness.
And so we're going to jump into
this and listen, let me just kind of
describe this bitterness is anger and
disappointment at being treated unfairly.
Let me just go a little bit
deeper usually it's because.
We can't forget the things
that that person did us.
Right.
So bitterness is usually a product
of unforgiveness and anger.
It's built up on forgiveness.
And so when we look at this, it
says Jonah was greatly displeased
to the point that he became furious.
And so it kind of wrote this out.
I said, Jonah was having a hissy fit.
Anybody ever heard of a hissy fit,
maybe your children have had that.
I actually had to look it up to see
if it's actually a real word and fit.
And it is it's basically
anger and frustration.
He was thrown a childish, even as
an adult, a childish fit because
God did not punish them for their
sins because he forgave them.
And so really, if you even look at this
first a little bit further, but what Jonah
saw happen by God was evil in his sight.
Think about this Jonah saying
what God did was wrong.
That's what Jonah was saying.
In that moment, he was greatly
displeased and became furious by what
God did by forgiving than antibiotics.
That's a pretty hard heart again, with,
we know the story of Jonah, Jonah is
a prophet, someone who would speak
to God and God would speak to him.
This would be somebody that in
today's terms, we would call, you
know, even just a normal believer
that has a relationship with Jesus,
but there were some in his heart.
So how did it get there?
What, what was it?
So I think we've talked about this
now, but I want to ask you guys this.
Why did Jonah have this
feeling towards the Ninevites?
Why did Jonah have this feeling
towards the Ninevites somebody tell me
no.
When you think about the story,
why did he have a, this hard heart
towards the Ninevites anybody?
Why did he not like the
Ninevites anybody know?
Hey, there we go.
Jonas.
They were terrible people.
Do you remember what they did at all?
They kill people.
So their enemy was Jonah's
people, the Israelites.
So whenever they would basically come and,
you know, obviously if they were being,
um, enemies, they would destroy things.
But one of the things that they did,
they were horrible to their enemies.
They would hang them on, um, basically
poles, uh, basically impelled them with
poles and set them out in the sun to burn.
They would cut off their heads
and put them at the front of the.
Their gates to kind of show,
Hey, we're a cruel people, right?
So they were cruel to Jonah's people.
So guys, I mean, you, you know,
this, like that sounds logical for
Jonah to be angry at these people.
They were his enemies.
They were horrible people.
How could God forgive them?
So in that moment, I think it's easy
for us to say, man, I understand
why Jonah had this heart, but.
We have to continue to grow from this.
And this is where we're going to look at.
Right?
So I know there's many people in
this room, including myself, who
at moments have felt like we knew
what was best in a situation.
Right.
I know what's best in the situation.
Um, especially someone who's wrongness.
I know how they should be punished.
I know how they should act.
I know how they should respond.
We have all had those moments.
And so here's the thing I think we
could relate with Jonah in this.
And if we want to go a step further,
if we want to go even more like in
the new Testament, we probably relate
well with the disciples that followed
Jesus, two of Jesus's closest disciples.
Here's what they said.
Whenever Jesus had sent them
ahead of them, I'm going to
read this Luke 9 54 said this.
Um, and this is speaking of Jesus.
He says he sent messages ahead of himself.
And on the way they entered a village
of the Samaritans to make preparations
for him, but they did not welcome him.
And because he determined
to journey to Jerusalem.
Um, when the disciples, James and
John saw this, they said, Lord,
do you want us to cast down fire
from heaven to consume them?
So just so you get this point,
Jesus asked them to go get some,
some places set up for him, his
coming and they didn't welcome him.
So what's the initial
response by these guys.
If they're not going to welcome
Jesus, we need to cast down
fire from heaven and consume.
That was James and John.
Some of Jesus' closest
followers wanted to do that.
You know, what did Jesus, his response,
but he turned and rebuke them.
Jesus rebuked him.
You know, I think about this is I think
there's times where I'm in traffic and
I want to call it on fire on some of the
people that are stupid in front of me.
You know?
I mean, we, we get in these
moments where we feel like we
know what's right, but God.
Rebukes us.
And he says, no, it's not.
So, so let me ask this question then what
should be our response when God forgives
someone and I'll go a little bit, step
further, what should be a response when
God doesn't punish someone the way we
want to, what should be your response?
When, when, when God forgives
somebody, what should be your response?
So, you know, I actually speak in service
and I invite a lot of conversation back.
I actually love it.
So what, what should, what should we do
when somebody actually turns from the.
Celebrate.
I'm glad you said that because the word
of God actually affirms that, uh, we
should rejoice Luke 15 seven says this.
I tell you in the same way, there will
be more joy in heaven, over one sinner
who repents than over 99 righteous
people who don't need repentance.
Here's the reason I want to say that
he says over one person, the repents.
If we go down a little bit later
and I know I've been quoting this
wrong until just recently, but
the 120,000 people in Nineveh.
Repented of their sins.
If there's one person that
repents, it says basically that
they're throwing a party in heaven
for him over 120,000 people.
There's probably a huge part of this going
on for days over this and for us, for us
to not celebrate when somebody is forgiven
of their sins, when somebody has given
their life to Christ and when somebody
has even wronged you, but yet they truly.
Ask God to forgive them and moved on.
We should celebrate because I'm not saying
it's easy, but I'm just telling you what
the word of God says that we should do.
Right.
If again, if the heaven is
throwing a party than we should.
And so here's just a side statement.
If you're running from repentance, because
you're fearful of what that looks like.
The Bible clearly says running to
repentance actually is a good thing.
Running to repentance is a good thing.
You should run to it, right.
Run to repentance.
It's a good thing.
So God longs for people to repent
and receive his grace and mercy.
And I just, I made this statement.
I just, as I think about how, how
he loves weak and broken people,
And here's the thing, guys.
I want, I want, wanna, I want to try
to be as clear as I came with this.
I don't know what you've gone through.
So this isn't me saying it.
I don't care what you've gone through.
You may have been abused and that's not
what I'm sitting here saying is okay.
And that you, you need to get
past your, your, your, your
frustration towards that person.
What I'm trying to communicate here
is God knows what you've been through.
God knows what that person said did
to you, but I want to be clear here.
And this is what I
think the word is clear.
Here's what God is not saying when he
forgives those who are, have wrong to you.
He's not saying to that
person, Hey, it's okay.
How you treated that person?
He's not saying, Hey, it's totally
fine that you said that to that person.
He's also not saying, Hey, it's okay.
How you reacted?
God doesn't.
And I want you to hear this
whenever God forgives sin, he
doesn't condone the actions of the.
He actually recognizes them
as horrible and damaging.
Not only to the person they hurt,
but to the person who did the act.
So I'm gonna say that again, when God
forgives sin, he doesn't condone the
actions of the center too many times.
When we look at God and he forgives these
people that are so horrible, we thank God.
How could you do this?
But God is actually just as
frustrated at the sin as.
Maybe even more so because he didn't
just those people, whenever they wronged
you, they didn't just sit against you.
They sinned against God.
So God is absolutely frustrated
and angry and hurt over how
you were hurt by someone.
But God.
Doesn't can go in them, right?
He still says this, and
I want you to see this.
That's why God relents when someone or
Pence, and this is the important part.
When someone repents, they get
it, they know they did wrong.
They know they should be eternally
punished and they know they should be
begging God like the king did before them.
And we saw this last week where the king
set an example of what true repentance is.
So, so you know this, God's not sitting
there for giving people who don't truly
repent, who don't truly feel sorry.
And you guys know this, you have kids.
If you don't have kids, you
probably have seen kids this way.
Maybe you acted.
Right.
You say, Hey, say, sorry
to your brother, sorry.
God's not looking at that and
saying, that's true repentance.
No, he's saying you have a heart
issue you need to get, so this
is people who truly repent.
God celebrates because they recognize
the same thing he recognized.
And the same thing you recognize when you
were hurt, that they were wrong and they
don't only want to be forgiven of it.
They want to overcome it and turn from it.
So we should celebrate for these things.
So we're going to jump into diverse
too, cause there's, there's more here.
So let's look at verse two.
It says he prayed to
the Lord, please, Lord.
And again, he went to the right place.
He's praying to the Lord, but his,
his words and his heart is not right.
It says he prayed to the Lord
and the Lord, he says, please
Lord, isn't this what I thought
while I was still on my own.
That's why I fled towards
Tarsus in the first place.
I knew that you were gracious and
compassionate and slow to anger,
abounding in faith love and the one
who relents from sending the disaster.
So I know if we look at this statement,
just like Jonah, we can struggle
with the idea of forgiveness, right.
Especially towards our enemy,
especially towards our enemy.
But I think the interesting thing
with this is Jonah knew the answer
that God was going to forgive them
all the way back in chapter one.
This is the point where we truly see.
Jonah's bitterness and how it was
controlling him back in chapter one.
When the Lord said, go to
Nineveh and preach against it.
Jonah knew at that moment, when
he fled to Tarsha says, this
is what this verse is saying.
He knew God would forgive them.
If he went, he probably knew God would
forgive them, even if he didn't go,
because God would find somebody else.
If Jonah never ended up going
Jonah, wasn't okay with it.
Jonah was not okay with it.
Right.
And I think that's.
So what I want to, I want to encourage you
in this, because I think this is important
for us to, to walk through and think
through Jonah had the right theology.
And so whenever I say the word theology
it's Jonah had the right understanding
of God's word, that he was right.
Compassionate and gracious, but he
had the wrong attitude towards it.
Jonah understood God's word.
He understood that he was gracious.
And forgiving and compassionate,
but his attitude was wrong.
So let me ask this question.
You ever been in a situation where
you knew you should respond and act
a certain way, but you rejected it
and acted like you wanted anybody.
You knew that it wasn't
right to say this or right.
To act this way, but you
rejected that feeling and you
acted the way you wanted to.
Yeah.
You guys know where you're stepping.
Yes.
You understand it.
Right.
Jonah did the same thing.
He was blinded by bitterness.
And here's the moment guys, the moment
that we respond in the flesh, the way we
want to is the moment that we're blinded
really by that anger or unforgiveness or
frustration or bitterness, whatever it is.
And so here, here's why I say this.
A lot of us are like Jonah.
In this instance, we want to look
at God's word and we want to say,
okay, God forgives my mistakes.
But we quickly want to look at somebody
else's and we want to say, but not theirs.
We want to withhold that from someone
else, because we think, you know, our
relationship is different than theirs.
You know, God looks at us better
than no, no, God looks at all of
us the same way as a, what is it?
Sheep without a shepherd
hurting and broken.
And he desires all of us
to come to faith in him.
So we are all important.
So again, Jonah wanted his ride theology,
understanding God's word, right.
Applied to him in chapter two.
And that's where we looked at.
I know you guys, maybe if you weren't
in here, you didn't see this, but
in chapter two, Jonah wanted to
be forgiven and God forgave him.
Chapter three, Jonah didn't
want the people that need to be
forgiven, but they were forgiven.
He liked Jonah chapter two being
forgiven, but he didn't like
John chapter three of them being.
You've never, probably been that
way towards somebody where you,
you want to withhold forgiveness.
You don't want to see them, you know, ever
basically it'd be okay that they're there.
They're not punished for their sins.
Right.
You want to make sure you do that
for, for God, because God can't do it.
I've been there.
I've been there and I get it.
I get it.
And so does Jonah, this
is why I've encouraged.
You don't give Jonah a hard time because
many times the longer we peer into the
story of Jonah, we don't see Jonah's name.
We see.
And that is convicting not only to
me, but I hope it's convicting to you.
Right?
And so if God's word is true and I believe
it is, it applies to everyone the same.
So we have to understand that God
will be compassionate towards people.
We don't like we disagree
with and have wrongness.
And here's an interesting thought
who knows you might be the person
that God forgives that someone
else doesn't like that you hurt.
And so whenever you start placing yourself
as the person, that's probably hurts them.
And needed forgiveness.
You start realizing how important it
is that we don't hold that forgiveness
over unforgiveness over someone else.
Right.
And I, so let's look at
verse three real quick.
I want to, I want us to see this,
this part here in verse three.
This is what Jonas Jonas,
Jonas, but Jonah says it's this.
And now Lord, take my life from me for
it is better for me to die than to live.
So Jonah's response to God's word.
Basically applying that he's
willing to forgive anybody.
Even his enemies is I'd rather
die than to see this come true.
Anybody see how this is such a sign
of bitterness and anger for Jonah?
Like if you don't see it at this
point that he was willing to just die.
I don't want to see these
people with being forgiven.
I'd rather just die.
He's so blinded by it guys that
he can't celebrate something huge.
I want to encourage you in this.
This is so important in ministry
and our Christian lives.
If God is blessing someone else, if
God is doing something amazing in
their life and you feel like he's not
in yours, don't tell God to kill you
because you don't want to celebrate.
I'm just going to step
out there a little bit.
I mean, so you want to say, Hey, well,
why are you saying that for us guys?
There's times where I have to get
off social media, because I'm,
I'm seeing other church planters
and I'm seeing good things happen.
And you know what happens in my heart,
Lord, why are you doing that to them?
And not to me?
And that moment, the Lord,
the spirit comes upon me.
He says, what the heck are you doing?
And I have to step away and
I have to address my heart
and say, Lord, this is wrong.
Why?
And this is why guys, we live in a
world and in a flesh that is sinful.
And we will always battle that.
But the word of the Lord is so
important to wash over us and the
grace of the Lord, which was extended
to Jonah, which was extended to the
Ninevites is extended to you and me in.
But one of the things that Jonah
missed guys is he didn't recognize
that he never came to the point
of saying, God, I'm broken.
Help me get past this and celebrate this.
He didn't get there.
He just ignored the Lord.
So Jonah was blinded by bitterness.
Right.
And we can become that same way.
So how do we overcome it?
How do we deal with bitterness
and anger and unforgiveness?
I'm glad you asked this question
because I think this text
actually speaks directly to it.
So we have to know that God is not
only compassionate to our enemies,
but he's also compassionate to us.
So I would say this, this is,
this is my last statement.
Run to the father.
When you are struggling to forgive,
when you are struggling to get over
your anger or your bitterness, there's
only one place to go is to the Lord.
And his word because it will
wash over us and teach us.
So what is compassion?
Right.
I want to kind of break down again,
go back to chapter or verse two
here and look at these words.
This is, I knew that you were
gracious and compassionate.
So grace has given us
something we don't deserve.
So God desires, even in your brokenness
and your struggle with unforgiveness to
give you something you don't deserve,
he desires to give you compassion.
And I want to talk about compassion.
Again, compassion is the emotion that
arises when you're confronted with
one another one suffering and you feel
motivated to relieve that suffering.
I give it this way.
This is a great way to think about it.
When you are starving and hungry and you
want to remove, leave that hunger pain.
When you are compassionate towards
someone, you see a need and you
desire so much to fulfill that
need that you have to do it right.
God and his sovereignty.
And his love for us was compassionate
towards us when he sent us on
Jesus, because Jesus saw us in
our suffering from our sins.
Right.
And he desired to relieve it just
as he did for the people of Nineveh.
See God.
It's compassionate towards you, even
in your brokenness, even in your
struggle to forgive, even in your
struggle with bitterness or whatever
it is that you're dealing with.
God is compassionate.
And so the only way that Jonah could
have overcome his bitterness is the
same way that we can overcome it.
Right.
And the same way that the people did.
And I want you to, I want you to see this.
We begin to overcome our
bitterness when we recognize
we can overcome it apart from.
I'll just tell you this.
I don't know what sin
you're struggling with.
So if you may be hearing today and saying
this message doesn't apply to me, Ben, it
absolutely does because God's compassion.
Grace Love and mercy is extended to anyone
who's struggling with sin in their life.
And this is what God says.
He says, you can overcome
it with me, right?
Because apart from God, we
can't, we cannot heal from
that, which we will not admit.
And so I'm gonna say the same.
We cannot heal from that,
which we're unwilling to it.
So I don't, I'm telling you, I
mentioned the last week guys,
we had to confess our sins.
We have to recognize our need for God.
And if we will not be willing
to admit it just like Jonah
didn't will never overcome it.
Jonah was unwilling to do this, and I
want to encourage you with this when
it comes to bitterness, because this
is a statement that just, it hits.
You know, when we think of not
forgiving someone or we're holding a
grudge towards someone, we think we're
hurting them and heard this statement.
Someone once said that bitterness
is like drinking poison and
hoping it kills your enemy.
Unforgiveness bitterness
is that same thing.
When you hold that is affecting you
way more than it's affecting the
person you're wanting to hold it over.
It has not meant for you
to be in that condition.
So verse four, verse four says
this, the Lord asks and it is right,
is it right for you to be angry?
And again, Jonah didn't
ever answer that question.
He refused to accept it.
So the Lord is sitting there saying
this, and this is what I would want
you to not miss at that moment of burst
three, Lord has the power and I would
say this, he has the right to look at
Jonah and grant his wish and kill him.
But you guys remember me
mentioning a couple of weeks ago
that Jonah got a second chance.
This verse describes the third chance
because God didn't destroy him.
He's actually trying to bring
something about in Jonah's heart.
He says, this is it right
for you to be angry.
I'm just telling you that's
called long suffering from God.
That continues to pursue us,
even though we reject him.
And this picture in his first
was important for me guys,
because there's times where I
feel like every day I fail him.
And I wonder if the Lord is saying
anything to me and you know, the
Lord is actually pointing it out,
is it right for you to be angry?
Ben, is it right for you to do that?
It's not, but that's the Lord's way
of saying I'm not done with you yet.
God was not done with Joni yet.
He still wanted to do
something in Jonah and through.
But we see God was gracious, right?
God will continue to walk with us through
all of our struggles and bitterness.
And I think so much to this God's love
for the one is just as strong as the
love for the 120,000 that he was leading
to repentance right through Jonah.
But I want you to see
this verse in this way.
God was trying to get Jonas.
In this verse for Jonah, it was God trying
to remind him in that moment that he
was giving Jonah the same mercy, grace
and grace that God had given Nineveh.
All of us are in some way like Jonah
in some shape or form, aren't we right.
We, we look at God and we say, when
it applies to us, we almost expect it.
We take it for granted that yo
man, God's going to forgive me,
God, you know, God's gonna do this.
God's gonna do that for me.
But will we begin to judge others?
And we don't want to extend that to.
Why don't we forget for quickly
forget the all of us have sinned
and fallen short of God's glory.
None of us are perfect.
All of us need that grace that God gives.
So if we're able to receive
it, then isn't our enemies.
God has not called us to be judge and
jury over who gets grace and who doesn't.
Right.
And if we leave bitterness
unchecked, here's what I promise you.
If you leave any sin
unchecked, it will affect.
All of your life, it will affect
every aspect of your life.
And your walk with Jesus will be hindered.
So if you are a believer in Christ
and you have sent in your life, it is
important to deal with it because it will
hinder your walk and following Jesus.
And if you're saying, well, I don't know
if I have sin, if you'll take time and
seek God's word, it will be clear what is
in your heart that you need to work on.
Right.
But I'm just gonna kind
of finish this way.
Cause I know we're, we're
running out of time here.
I love ending.
Am I, again, my wife has done a
great job of reminding me this.
I love ending every message this way.
What does this text say about God,
ultimately, guys, what is this text?
What does this scripture say about God?
And I would just, I'm going to
kind of summarize it here for you.
Whether you're in the place of the people
of Nineveh who have done something.
If you're in that place,
you've done something horrible.
You've wrong.
Someone, whether you're in that place
or whether you're in the place of Jonah,
where you're bitter towards someone and
you're holding unforgiveness, or whether
you're somewhere in between, God is
gracious and compassionate towards you.
He is slow to anger and he
is abounding a faithful love.
And he is one who will
relent from disaster.
That's the God we serve because God loves.
Even in your brokenness now he
says, I want you to stay that way.
I think that's so important.
He does not want you to stay that way.
He desires for a better life.
And this is the thing I
continued to communicate.
When we talk about sin so many times,
it's like, well, it's the major
sins we need to focus on, right?
No, it's any sin and sin as anything
we thank say, do or don't do that.
Displeases God is it's really
anything against God's.
What was a person who he is, right?
God and his love and his mercy and
his grace and his compassion towards.
I would say this, God is
saying this about your sin.
Your sin is not his best for you.
He has something better.
So when we repent and turn from
God, there's something better
on the other side of that.
So withholding repentance is actually
not experiencing God's best for you.
I think that changes my perspective of
my sin because I want God's best because
I know he has something greater for me.
And many times on the other
side of repentance is freedom.
It's peace.
It's love.
It's something.
What I would say is, is amazing that
we get to experience this side of
heaven that, that I'm telling you guys
when we get there, it's wonderful.
But it's a daily process.
Cause I'm telling you this
just as a pastor, I, I repent
every day of sins, right?
Uh, the things I think towards
somebody, the things I think about
the things I don't think about,
the things I don't prioritize, I'm
constantly have to say, God, forgive me.
I know that I need your help.
So.
An order to receive this.
I want to kind of in this way, guys,
as we go into invitation, what is
the purpose of invitation is time to
reflect what God speak to you about.
I pray that God spoke to you,
something through this word for you
to consider what it got, speak to me.
And what does that mean to me?
But I kind of want to mention just
a few things maybe for you, right?
Um, we see this, this, this
things I mentioned, right?
Grace and compassion and
how God slow to anger.
Maybe you want to receive this.
Maybe you.
Already given your life to Christ
and you just need to receive these
things again for something in
your life that you're dealing with
in order for us to receive it.
I want to ask this question.
What does it take to receive it?
What does it take to receive God's love
and compassion and mercy and grace?
Somebody tell me what does it take?
Simple, but talking about it,
what's it take repetitive.
You know, God doesn't pull grace back
here and he says, hope you can find it.
It's always there.
Waiting.
Forgiveness is always there waiting
on the other side of repentance
on the other side of repentance.
So today when we go into
invitation, there's some of us
there dealing with bitterness.
You know what Jesus is saying?
Come to me, all you who are weary
and burdened, and I will give you.
There are some of us who are dealing
with guilt over our sins of wrong
actions, towards someone or towards God.
You know what Jesus is saying?
Come to me all you who are weary and
burdened, and I will give you rest.
There is nothing that God is saying.
Don't come to me about.
So during this time of invitation,
come before the Lord, open your
hearts to him and say, Lord, where
is it that I'm falling short?
And if it's not anything to do with
this message, and you're knocking it
out of the park, pray that God uses
this message to encourage someone who
isn't, whatever it is, seek the Lord in.
But the last statement is this.
If you've never given your life
to Christ, if you don't know what
it is to follow Jesus and receive
grace and mercy and know who God is.
And you're confused about
everything maybe was spoke to today.
I want you to come talk to me.
If you want to know how to accept
Christ and be forgiven of your
sins, I want you to talk to me.
It's the greatest thing, greatest
decision you'll ever make in your life.
It changed my life almost 13 years
ago, 13 years ago, I gave my life
to Christ on a Sunday night and it
took me a solid year to get over
realizing I couldn't do it on my own.
And for you maybe the
same way don't miss today.
Today's the day of salvation.
You never know if tomorrow is
promised and that's not for you
to be scared into salvation.
That's for you to be motivated to
deal with it today and not put it off.
So during this time of invitation,
I'm going to stand in the back.
I love staying in the back because I
want you to feel comfortable to not
feel like you're up in front of people.
If you have questions, but that
you can come ask questions.
Maybe it's about the message.
Maybe it's about to follow
Jesus, but come talk to me.
I'd love to pray with
you and encourage you.
Um, but outside of that, I want
you guys to ask the Lord what he is
teaching you, repent of your sin.
If you've got it in your heart
and give it over to the Lord.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus, we
thank you Lord for your word
because we know it's true.
Laura.
No today's text was hard.
I know it's hard Lord, because there's
many of us in this room that may have
came in these doors, not knowing they
were going to be dealing and confronted
with the unforgiveness in their heart
or the envy in their heart or the Lord
lack of just compassion in their heart.
Lord, I don't know what it is that
every person walked in this room with.
But I do know that you
have an answer for it.
You have an answer for it, Lord.
It is your love grace and mercy that
you want to pour out on each other.
Who boldly goes before you today during
this time of invitation and says, Lord, I
need you, Lord, help me overcome my sin.
Help me turn from my wicked ways.
Lord, help me overcome this
bitterness Lord, I so hard.
So hardly believe Lord that in this
text, if we would've just saw Jonah
respond after verse four with Lord.
How dare.
I think this way, Lord help me
because I'm struggling, Lord.
I believe that you would have wrapped him
in your arms and you would have walked
with him through a pentance and helped him
take steps of faith towards celebrating
that invites coming to faith in you, Lord.
That's what you would do to
us today, Lord, that you're
going to wrap us in your arms.
When we come to you, struggling
to forgive someone, and you're
going to say I'm with you.
You're going to say I'm
going to help you through it.
And that's the type of God you are.
And I'm so thankful we serve you.
So Lord, I pray for hearts to be
changed and lives to be changed today.
Lord, if there's someone in this room
that doesn't know you, Lord, I pray
that they get up from their seat.
During this time of invitation,
they come back and they talk and
they say, Hey Ben, I got questions.
Hey Ben, I want to know Jesus, whatever
it is, Lord, I pray that they do it
today and they don't put it off Lord.
We know that you're the one that moves
and we're praying for you to move.
So Lord, we just pray all
these things in your hands.
Amen.
Will you stand with me?
So we worship.